## Blog Assignment #1: Comparing Articles
*This blog post will talk about what a data scientist is, the major knowledge areas, and how they relate to statisticians.*

I think being a data scientist is all about answering questions or solving problems using data through visualization and statistics. The major duties and knowledge areas revolve around statistics, coding, and data analytics (modeling, interpretation, and visualization)

Both data scientists and statisticians have a strong coding knowledge, with R or Python almost acting as necessities, but experience with other programs as well, such as SQL. They also have a firm understanding of statistics, machine learning, and data visualization. Collecting, cleaning, and processing data is also an important skill that both encounter. Data science is a relatively new field, with an emphasis on analytical application rather than mathematical theory and concepts. Data science typically incoporates machine learning, while statisticians will analyze data through more pure statistical modeling or techniques.

As you can see, there are many similarities between data scientists and statisticians. I think the starkest difference is the degree an open position requires. Statistician positions typically look for a statistics/mathematics degree while a data scientist position may be open to a statistics/mathematics, computer science, data analytics, or engineering degree. Similarly, pure statistician positions are most often found in government, academia, or pharmacy. Data scientist positions can be found in nearly all industries including finance, sports, and construction. Furthermore, statisticians often sample smaller sets of data, and utilize the famous T-tests, ANOVA, or a Chi-Square test. Data scientists don't focus on those individual tests as much, but rather work to build predictive models.

I personally view myself as more of a data scientist who is obtaining the skills to become a statistician. I think learning more about statistics can only strengthen a data scientist's skillset and performance. I think there are clear overlaps between the two positions, but also some important slight differences. I imagine my career taking me towards a data scientist/analyst role as opposed to a pure statistician that would be working in academia, government, or pharmacy. In my current role I rely more on regression analysis than machine learning to build models and interpret results. I do use large sets of complex data, but avoid many baseline statistics tests like ANOVA.
