## Reflection on Project #3
*This blog post will discuss my thoughts on Project #3*  
My GitHub pages link can be found [here.](https://roccomatarazzo.github.io/ProjectThree/)  
My GitHub repo link can be found [here.](https://github.com/roccoMatarazzo/ProjectThree)  

I enjoyed this project! Karthik and I collaborated really well. We attacked the project as suggested, focusing on the inital level of education, and testing our code and writing our main markdown file with the data subsetted on that level. From there we tackled our individual pieces, spoke with one another on what looked best, and eventually got to the finish line. The instructions were very easy to follow and we completed our tasks without much hassle. We we're able to explore some new R packages and get more practice in items covered in Topic 3 of class.

The toughest part of the project, in my opinion, was the EDA section. I feel like there is only so much you can do with categorical data before it begins to get repetitive. I think I may have focused too much on always incorporating the diabetes variable within the plot/table initially. I ended up including a plot that was strictly based on age and gender, just to get an idea of the individuals within the dataset, which seemed to be useful despite not including the diabetes variable. All in all, it was great to get more practice in with Exploratory Data Analysis. We also had a tiny scare with not finding our rendered .html files, but we realized we had typed the links in with a ".md" ending rather than ".html", so that was kind of scary! Luckily, we realized our mistake rather quickly. 

If I could do something differently on this project I would probably spend more time on researching some EDA options for categorical variables. Like I mentioned above it was the toughest part of the project for me individually. I think doing a few more frequency/count plots could have displayed information even better. Moreover, I think having a piece of the EDA dedicated to "missing" data (although it was mostly removed according to Kaggle) or finding outliers (specifically for numerical variables) might have been worth doing. 

My biggest takeaways from this project are the coding techniques we used. Getting legitimate practice automating the reports through the YAML was important. It can make your life a lot easier if you are conducting the same analysis on multiple groups like we did here. I could definitely see myself applying this at work, for different pitchers, batters, or teams in general. Along with that, GitHub Pages is a really impressive tool that I am looking forward to using in the future as well. It can display things in a visually pleasing format and it doesn't take much effort to code. I think the best part about it is that it's free! Aside from the coding techniques, it was very useful to read and learn about Log Loss and how it's different from accuracy. It's something I'd like to keep in mind in the future when evaluating classification models.

Overall, I enjoyed completing this project and certainly enjoyed choosing our the partner! I've had a couple classes with Karthik throughout this distance learning program and we've gotten to work together a few times. He's a great classmate.
