## Blog Post Assignment 3: Choosing Regression Variables
*This blog post will discuss choosing variables for a regression model*  

I have a strong interest in the topic of regression and model building, so I personally enjoy thinking about variables for a model and trying to choose what's best! However, I haven't built many models beyond the classroom, with few exceptions coming at work. It's safe to say there is a lot to consider.

Generally, I try to think about the question I'm trying to answer with the model I have. I also logically think about my response variable and things that are related to the variable. For example, if my response variable is strikeouts in a season for a pitcher I immediatley begin to consider pitcher handedness, fastball velocity, number of total pitches the pitcher is able to throw, and innings they've pitched. All four of those will be related to the number of strikeouts a pitcher gets in a season -- although it does not guarantee they're truly significant.

I am personally not a huge fan of stepwise selection, albeit forward or backwards. Despite this, I will sometimes fit a model with several variables and see which return significance (low p-value from F-test). This isn't necessarily a sound technique either, but can be a quick way to decide which variables to keep in a model. Rather, criteron-based procedures, like the ones mentioned in the attached [document](https://www.biostat.jhsph.edu/~iruczins/teaching/jf/ch10.pdf), are what I typically adhere by. Comparing multiple models with different variable combinations using the criteron can help us pick the right variables for our model. Specifically, I like to use Adjusted-R Squared or Root Mean Square Error (RMSE).



I'm interested in employing other techniques that include things like data mining, as mentioned in Bruce Ratner's [paper](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1057/jt.2009.26.pdf) on page 69. I like to think I already use some of the techniques listed in *The Natural Seven-step Cycle of Statistical Modeling and Analysis* on page 71 of Ratner's paper. Va


For your blog post, write up a brief discussion of how you would plan to determine variables to use in a regression model.  What variable selection techniques do you prefer and why?. 
